Software Architecture and Design
Paper 1
Title: Reflections on the Making of a Great Software Designs and Designer
Book: The Design of Design, Essays from a Computer Scientist by Frederick P. Brooks, Jr.
Emmanuel Ogala
05/01/2018
“Great designs come from great designers, not great design processes” - Frederick P. Brooks, Jr.
Two lessons stand out from the two chapters reviewed for this assignment, in my opinion.
First, processes, bureaucracies and administrative churn are antithetical to design excellence. Great design comes from organized chaoses where designers are pushed, inspired, and managed carefully, but not restricted.
In chapter 19, he discussed his thoughts on how great designs can be encouraged in an industrial setting. He argues that great designs come from great designers, not great design processes. And, great designers do better when they are well catered to and protected from the administrative churn. The process, he believes, is less important than the outcome. 
A process should exist, but only to the point where its presence does not inhibit the flow of creative juice in designers. 
In my experience, I have seen creative minds peak when there are no boundaries.
Since enterprises cannot run without processes, the author advises a product procedure that explicitly identifies and build constraints around matters of fundamental importance only. The author believes this strategy is inherently a protective mechanism. 
“It must securely protect the crown jewels, but, equally important, it must eschew building high fences around the garbage cans,” he argues.
He also advises that product procedures provide easy and swift exception mechanisms that require the approval of only the project manager and perhaps, one other high-level boss. 
In chapter 20, the authors discuss the making of great designers.
His central argument is that the evolution of great designers takes a long process of critiqued practice and mentorship, as well as self-driven knowledge quest.
The author wrote from the perspective of a manager and admits that managers must deliberately grow designers and employ designers based on their potential or abilities to design, rather than the aspiring employee’s managerial outlook. 
The author argues - and I agree - that all professional skills are mastered by critiqued practice.
